frontend/README.md, before:

# KrishiConnect Frontend

A modern, responsive Next.js frontend application for KrishiConnect - a platform connecting farmers with customers for fresh produce delivery.

## 🚀 Features

- **Modern UI/UX**: Built with Next.js 15, Ant Design, and Tailwind CSS
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with seamless desktop experience
- **Authentication**: JWT-based authentication with role-based access control
- **State Management**: React Context for global state (Auth, Cart)
- **API Integration**: Axios-based service layer with error handling
- **Image Optimization**: Next.js Image component with Cloudinary integration
- **Animations**: Framer Motion for smooth animations and transitions
- **Form Handling**: React Hook Form with validation
- **File Upload**: Drag-and-drop file upload with preview
- **Search & Filter**: Advanced product search and filtering
- **Shopping Cart**: Persistent cart with localStorage
- **Payment Integration**: Stripe payment processing
- **Real-time Updates**: React Query for data fetching and caching

## 📁 Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── public/                     # Static assets
│   ├── images/                # Image assets
│   ├── icons/                 # Icon files
│   └── favicon.ico            # Favicon
├── src/
│   ├── app/                   # Next.js App Router
│   │   ├── (auth)/           # Authentication routes
│   │   │   ├── login/page.js
│   │   │   └── register/page.js
│   │   ├── (dashboard)/      # Protected dashboard routes
│   │   │   ├── farmer/       # Farmer dashboard
│   │   │   ├── customer/     # Customer dashboard
│   │   │   └── admin/        # Admin dashboard
│   │   ├── (main)/           # Public main site
│   │   │   ├── products/     # Product pages
│   │   │   ├── cart/page.js
│   │   │   └── checkout/page.js
│   │   ├── globals.css       # Global styles
│   │   ├── layout.js         # Root layout
│   │   └── page.js           # Homepage
│   ├── components/           # Reusable components
│   │   ├── common/          # Common UI components
│   │   │   ├── AppHeader.js
│   │   │   ├── AppFooter.js
│   │   │   ├── ProtectedRoute.js
│   │   │   └── LoadingSpinner.js
│   │   ├── forms/           # Form components
│   │   │   ├── LoginForm.js
│   │   │   └── ProductForm.js
│   │   ├── product/         # Product-specific components
│   │   │   ├── ProductCard.js
│   │   │   ├── ProductList.js
│   │   │   └── ReviewSection.js
│   │   └── home/            # Homepage components
│   │       ├── HeroSection.js
│   │       ├── FeaturedProducts.js
│   │       ├── CategoriesSection.js
│   │       ├── WhyChooseUs.js
│   │       ├── TestimonialsSection.js
│   │       └── StatsSection.js
│   ├── context/             # React Context providers
│   │   ├── AuthContext.js   # Authentication context
│   │   └── CartContext.js   # Shopping cart context
│   ├── hooks/               # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── useAuth.js       # Auth context hook
│   │   └── useCart.js       # Cart context hook
│   ├── lib/                 # Utility libraries
│   │   ├── AntdRegistry.js  # Ant Design registry
│   │   └── helpers.js       # Helper functions
│   └── services/            # API service layer
│       ├── api.js           # Axios configuration
│       ├── auth.service.js  # Authentication API
│       ├── product.service.js # Product API
│       └── order.service.js # Order API
├── .env.local               # Environment variables
├── next.config.js          # Next.js configuration
└── package.json            # Dependencies and scripts
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 (App Router)
- **Language**: JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + Ant Design
- **State Management**: React Context + Zustand
- **Data Fetching**: React Query + Axios
- **Forms**: React Hook Form
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Icons**: Ant Design Icons
- **Image Handling**: Next.js Image + Cloudinary
- **Authentication**: JWT tokens
- **File Upload**: React Dropzone
- **Charts**: Chart.js + React Chart.js 2
- **Notifications**: React Hot Toast

## 📦 Key Dependencies

### Core Dependencies
```json
{
  "next": "^15.5.4",              // React framework
  "react": "^19.1.0",            // React library
  "react-dom": "^19.1.0",        // React DOM
  "antd": "^5.18.0",             // UI component library
  "@ant-design/icons": "^5.3.7", // Ant Design icons
  "tailwindcss": "^4",           // CSS framework
  "axios": "^1.7.2",             // HTTP client
  "react-query": "^3.39.3",      // Data fetching
  "react-hook-form": "^7.48.2",  // Form handling
  "framer-motion": "^10.16.16",  // Animations
  "js-cookie": "^3.0.5",         // Cookie management
  "react-hot-toast": "^2.4.1",   // Notifications
  "zustand": "^4.4.7",           // State management
  "react-dropzone": "^14.2.3",   // File upload
  "chart.js": "^4.4.7",         // Charts
  "react-chartjs-2": "^5.2.0",   // Chart.js React wrapper
  "dayjs": "^1.11.10",           // Date manipulation
  "lodash": "^4.17.21"           // Utility functions
}
```

### Development Dependencies
```json
{
  "eslint": "^9",                // Code linting
  "prettier": "^3.1.0",         // Code formatting
  "typescript": "^5.3.3",       // TypeScript support
  "@types/node": "^20.10.5",    // Node.js types
  "@types/react": "^18.2.45",   // React types
  "@types/react-dom": "^18.2.18" // React DOM types
}
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Backend API running (see backend README)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd krishiConnect/frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Edit the .env.local file with your configuration
   nano .env.local
   ```

4. **Configure Environment Variables**
   ```env
   # API Configuration
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api/v1
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=KrishiConnect
   
   # External Services
   NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloudinary-cloud-name
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_your_stripe_key
   
   # App URLs
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXT_PUBLIC_ADMIN_URL=http://localhost:3000/admin
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

The application will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## 📝 Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev          # Start development server with Turbopack
npm run build        # Build for production with Turbopack
npm start           # Start production server

# Code Quality
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
npm run lint:fix     # Fix ESLint errors
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm run type-check   # Run TypeScript type checking
```

## 🎨 Design System

### Color Palette
- **Primary**: Green (#52c41a)
- **Secondary**: Blue (#1890ff)
- **Success**: Green (#52c41a)
- **Warning**: Orange (#faad14)
- **Error**: Red (#ff4d4f)
- **Text Primary**: Dark Gray (#262626)
- **Text Secondary**: Medium Gray (#8c8c8c)
- **Background**: Light Gray (#fafafa)

### Typography
- **Font Family**: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', Roboto
- **Headings**: Bold weights (600-700)
- **Body**: Regular weight (400)
- **Captions**: Medium weight (500)

### Spacing
- **Base Unit**: 4px
- **Common Spacing**: 8px, 16px, 24px, 32px, 48px, 64px

## 🔐 Authentication Flow

1. **Login/Register**: Users authenticate via JWT tokens
2. **Token Storage**: Access tokens stored in secure HTTP-only cookies
3. **Role-based Access**: Different dashboards based on user roles
4. **Protected Routes**: Route protection based on authentication status
5. **Auto-refresh**: Automatic token refresh for seamless experience

## 🛒 Shopping Cart

- **Persistent Storage**: Cart data saved in localStorage
- **Real-time Updates**: Instant cart updates across components
- **Quantity Management**: Add, remove, update quantities
- **Validation**: Stock availability and quantity limits
- **Checkout Flow**: Seamless transition to checkout process

## 📱 Responsive Design

- **Mobile-first**: Designed for mobile devices first
- **Breakpoints**: 
  - xs: 0px - 576px (Mobile)
  - sm: 576px - 768px (Tablet)
  - md: 768px - 992px (Small Desktop)
  - lg: 992px - 1200px (Desktop)
  - xl: 1200px+ (Large Desktop)

## 🎭 User Roles & Permissions

### Customer
- Browse and search products
- Add items to cart
- Place orders
- Leave reviews
- Manage profile

### Farmer (Owner/Manager/Worker)
- Manage products
- Process orders
- View analytics
- Manage staff (Owner/Manager)
- Handle finances

### Admin
- User management
- System analytics
- Dispute resolution
- Platform settings
- Content moderation

## 🔌 API Integration

### Service Layer Architecture
- **Centralized API calls**: All API calls through service layer
- **Error Handling**: Consistent error handling across the app
- **Request/Response Interceptors**: Automatic token management
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript interfaces for API responses

### Key Services
- **Auth Service**: Authentication and user management
- **Product Service**: Product CRUD and search
- **Order Service**: Order management and tracking
- **Upload Service**: File upload to Cloudinary

## 🎨 Component Architecture

### Component Types
- **Layout Components**: AppHeader, AppFooter, ProtectedRoute
- **UI Components**: LoadingSpinner, ProductCard, Form components
- **Page Components**: Homepage sections, Dashboard pages
- **Feature Components**: Cart, Search, Product management

### Component Patterns
- **Composition over Inheritance**: Flexible component composition
- **Props Interface**: Clear prop definitions
- **Default Props**: Sensible defaults for optional props
- **Error Boundaries**: Graceful error handling

## 🚀 Performance Optimizations

- **Code Splitting**: Automatic code splitting with Next.js
- **Image Optimization**: Next.js Image component with lazy loading
- **Bundle Analysis**: Webpack bundle analyzer
- **Caching**: React Query for API response caching
- **Memoization**: React.memo for expensive components

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

- **Unit Tests**: Component and utility function tests
- **Integration Tests**: API service and context tests
- **E2E Tests**: Critical user flow tests
- **Visual Regression**: UI component testing

## 🚀 Deployment

### Production Build
```bash
npm run build
npm start
```

### Environment Variables (Production)
```env
NODE_ENV=production
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://api.krishiconnect.com/api/v1
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://krishiconnect.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=production-cloudinary
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_your_live_key
```

### Deployment Platforms
- **Vercel**: Recommended for Next.js applications
- **Netlify**: Alternative static hosting
- **AWS**: Full-stack deployment
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email frontend@krishiconnect.com or create an issue in the repository.

---

**Built with ❤️ for connecting farmers with customers**

Commit message:

Add API endpoints documentation, CORS configuration updates, and project renaming from KrishiConnect to AgroUdyam. Included detailed summaries for home page redesign, implementation, and setup guide. Updated environment variables and service files for consistent branding and functionality.

frontend/README.md, after:

# AgroUdyam Frontend

A modern, responsive Next.js frontend application for AgroUdyam - a platform connecting farmers with customers for fresh produce delivery.

## 🚀 Features

- **Modern UI/UX**: Built with Next.js 15, Ant Design, and Tailwind CSS
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with seamless desktop experience
- **Authentication**: JWT-based authentication with role-based access control
- **State Management**: React Context for global state (Auth, Cart)
- **API Integration**: Axios-based service layer with error handling
- **Image Optimization**: Next.js Image component with Cloudinary integration
- **Animations**: Framer Motion for smooth animations and transitions
- **Form Handling**: React Hook Form with validation
- **File Upload**: Drag-and-drop file upload with preview
- **Search & Filter**: Advanced product search and filtering
- **Shopping Cart**: Persistent cart with localStorage
- **Payment Integration**: Stripe payment processing
- **Real-time Updates**: React Query for data fetching and caching

## 📁 Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── public/                     # Static assets
│   ├── images/                # Image assets
│   ├── icons/                 # Icon files
│   └── favicon.ico            # Favicon
├── src/
│   ├── app/                   # Next.js App Router
│   │   ├── (auth)/           # Authentication routes
│   │   │   ├── login/page.js
│   │   │   └── register/page.js
│   │   ├── (dashboard)/      # Protected dashboard routes
│   │   │   ├── farmer/       # Farmer dashboard
│   │   │   ├── customer/     # Customer dashboard
│   │   │   └── admin/        # Admin dashboard
│   │   ├── (main)/           # Public main site
│   │   │   ├── products/     # Product pages
│   │   │   ├── cart/page.js
│   │   │   └── checkout/page.js
│   │   ├── globals.css       # Global styles
│   │   ├── layout.js         # Root layout
│   │   └── page.js           # Homepage
│   ├── components/           # Reusable components
│   │   ├── common/          # Common UI components
│   │   │   ├── AppHeader.js
│   │   │   ├── AppFooter.js
│   │   │   ├── ProtectedRoute.js
│   │   │   └── LoadingSpinner.js
│   │   ├── forms/           # Form components
│   │   │   ├── LoginForm.js
│   │   │   └── ProductForm.js
│   │   ├── product/         # Product-specific components
│   │   │   ├── ProductCard.js
│   │   │   ├── ProductList.js
│   │   │   └── ReviewSection.js
│   │   └── home/            # Homepage components
│   │       ├── HeroSection.js
│   │       ├── FeaturedProducts.js
│   │       ├── CategoriesSection.js
│   │       ├── WhyChooseUs.js
│   │       ├── TestimonialsSection.js
│   │       └── StatsSection.js
│   ├── context/             # React Context providers
│   │   ├── AuthContext.js   # Authentication context
│   │   └── CartContext.js   # Shopping cart context
│   ├── hooks/               # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── useAuth.js       # Auth context hook
│   │   └── useCart.js       # Cart context hook
│   ├── lib/                 # Utility libraries
│   │   ├── AntdRegistry.js  # Ant Design registry
│   │   └── helpers.js       # Helper functions
│   └── services/            # API service layer
│       ├── api.js           # Axios configuration
│       ├── auth.service.js  # Authentication API
│       ├── product.service.js # Product API
│       └── order.service.js # Order API
├── .env.local               # Environment variables
├── next.config.js          # Next.js configuration
└── package.json            # Dependencies and scripts
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 (App Router)
- **Language**: JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + Ant Design
- **State Management**: React Context + Zustand
- **Data Fetching**: React Query + Axios
- **Forms**: React Hook Form
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Icons**: Ant Design Icons
- **Image Handling**: Next.js Image + Cloudinary
- **Authentication**: JWT tokens
- **File Upload**: React Dropzone
- **Charts**: Chart.js + React Chart.js 2
- **Notifications**: React Hot Toast

## 📦 Key Dependencies

### Core Dependencies
```json
{
  "next": "^15.5.4",              // React framework
  "react": "^19.1.0",            // React library
  "react-dom": "^19.1.0",        // React DOM
  "antd": "^5.18.0",             // UI component library
  "@ant-design/icons": "^5.3.7", // Ant Design icons
  "tailwindcss": "^4",           // CSS framework
  "axios": "^1.7.2",             // HTTP client
  "react-query": "^3.39.3",      // Data fetching
  "react-hook-form": "^7.48.2",  // Form handling
  "framer-motion": "^10.16.16",  // Animations
  "js-cookie": "^3.0.5",         // Cookie management
  "react-hot-toast": "^2.4.1",   // Notifications
  "zustand": "^4.4.7",           // State management
  "react-dropzone": "^14.2.3",   // File upload
  "chart.js": "^4.4.7",         // Charts
  "react-chartjs-2": "^5.2.0",   // Chart.js React wrapper
  "dayjs": "^1.11.10",           // Date manipulation
  "lodash": "^4.17.21"           // Utility functions
}
```

### Development Dependencies
```json
{
  "eslint": "^9",                // Code linting
  "prettier": "^3.1.0",         // Code formatting
  "typescript": "^5.3.3",       // TypeScript support
  "@types/node": "^20.10.5",    // Node.js types
  "@types/react": "^18.2.45",   // React types
  "@types/react-dom": "^18.2.18" // React DOM types
}
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm or yarn package manager
- Backend API running (see backend README)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd krishiConnect/frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Edit the .env.local file with your configuration
   nano .env.local
   ```

4. **Configure Environment Variables**
   ```env
   # API Configuration
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api/v1
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=AgroUdyam
   
   # External Services
   NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloudinary-cloud-name
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_your_stripe_key
   
   # App URLs
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXT_PUBLIC_ADMIN_URL=http://localhost:3000/admin
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

The application will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## 📝 Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev          # Start development server with Turbopack
npm run build        # Build for production with Turbopack
npm start           # Start production server

# Code Quality
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
npm run lint:fix     # Fix ESLint errors
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm run type-check   # Run TypeScript type checking
```

## 🎨 Design System

### Color Palette
- **Primary**: Green (#52c41a)
- **Secondary**: Blue (#1890ff)
- **Success**: Green (#52c41a)
- **Warning**: Orange (#faad14)
- **Error**: Red (#ff4d4f)
- **Text Primary**: Dark Gray (#262626)
- **Text Secondary**: Medium Gray (#8c8c8c)
- **Background**: Light Gray (#fafafa)

### Typography
- **Font Family**: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', Roboto
- **Headings**: Bold weights (600-700)
- **Body**: Regular weight (400)
- **Captions**: Medium weight (500)

### Spacing
- **Base Unit**: 4px
- **Common Spacing**: 8px, 16px, 24px, 32px, 48px, 64px

## 🔐 Authentication Flow

1. **Login/Register**: Users authenticate via JWT tokens
2. **Token Storage**: Access tokens stored in secure HTTP-only cookies
3. **Role-based Access**: Different dashboards based on user roles
4. **Protected Routes**: Route protection based on authentication status
5. **Auto-refresh**: Automatic token refresh for seamless experience

## 🛒 Shopping Cart

- **Persistent Storage**: Cart data saved in localStorage
- **Real-time Updates**: Instant cart updates across components
- **Quantity Management**: Add, remove, update quantities
- **Validation**: Stock availability and quantity limits
- **Checkout Flow**: Seamless transition to checkout process

## 📱 Responsive Design

- **Mobile-first**: Designed for mobile devices first
- **Breakpoints**: 
  - xs: 0px - 576px (Mobile)
  - sm: 576px - 768px (Tablet)
  - md: 768px - 992px (Small Desktop)
  - lg: 992px - 1200px (Desktop)
  - xl: 1200px+ (Large Desktop)

## 🎭 User Roles & Permissions

### Customer
- Browse and search products
- Add items to cart
- Place orders
- Leave reviews
- Manage profile

### Farmer (Owner/Manager/Worker)
- Manage products
- Process orders
- View analytics
- Manage staff (Owner/Manager)
- Handle finances

### Admin
- User management
- System analytics
- Dispute resolution
- Platform settings
- Content moderation

## 🔌 API Integration

### Service Layer Architecture
- **Centralized API calls**: All API calls through service layer
- **Error Handling**: Consistent error handling across the app
- **Request/Response Interceptors**: Automatic token management
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript interfaces for API responses

### Key Services
- **Auth Service**: Authentication and user management
- **Product Service**: Product CRUD and search
- **Order Service**: Order management and tracking
- **Upload Service**: File upload to Cloudinary

## 🎨 Component Architecture

### Component Types
- **Layout Components**: AppHeader, AppFooter, ProtectedRoute
- **UI Components**: LoadingSpinner, ProductCard, Form components
- **Page Components**: Homepage sections, Dashboard pages
- **Feature Components**: Cart, Search, Product management

### Component Patterns
- **Composition over Inheritance**: Flexible component composition
- **Props Interface**: Clear prop definitions
- **Default Props**: Sensible defaults for optional props
- **Error Boundaries**: Graceful error handling

## 🚀 Performance Optimizations

- **Code Splitting**: Automatic code splitting with Next.js
- **Image Optimization**: Next.js Image component with lazy loading
- **Bundle Analysis**: Webpack bundle analyzer
- **Caching**: React Query for API response caching
- **Memoization**: React.memo for expensive components

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

- **Unit Tests**: Component and utility function tests
- **Integration Tests**: API service and context tests
- **E2E Tests**: Critical user flow tests
- **Visual Regression**: UI component testing

## 🚀 Deployment

### Production Build
```bash
npm run build
npm start
```

### Environment Variables (Production)
```env
NODE_ENV=production
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://api.agroudyam.com/api/v1
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://agroudyam.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=production-cloudinary
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_your_live_key
```

### Deployment Platforms
- **Vercel**: Recommended for Next.js applications
- **Netlify**: Alternative static hosting
- **AWS**: Full-stack deployment
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email frontend@agroudyam.com or create an issue in the repository.

---

**Built with ❤️ for connecting farmers with customers**
